>> Certain images
can sum up a city--
the poor river
sides of Calcutta,
the undernourished children,
and its dilapidated buildings.
But for the last 20 years,
scenes from Indian cities
have been shaken by the arrival
of American-style shopping
centers.
Like this one, filled
by Western brands.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Move, make room.
The city mayor and
a minister have
come to the opening with one
of the most famous actors
on the Indian subcontinent.
Welcome to the Paradise of
shopping and gastronomy.
Upstairs next to
traditional foods,
three Western fast food
brands are about to open--
Subway, KFC, and soon, Domino's
Pizza, the brand's 600th point
of sale in India.
How much is it?
59 rupees, sir.
59 rupees, OK.
59 rupees, 80 euro cents.
It's a Western product at a
very low price, the main sales
argument of the brand.
And that are some even cheaper.
>> This pizza is a [? steady ?]
[INAUDIBLE] for Domino's.
And the main thing is,
like, we [INAUDIBLE]
this pizza is only at 49.
That is
[? the thing about it. ?]
So that's why it's
the most popular.
[INAUDIBLE] 49 is like
dream comes true, I think.
[INAUDIBLE] and for
the guest, also.
>> Industrial food is still the
stuff of dreams in developing
countries and they
are promising markets.
In France and Europe, this
fairy tale is less of a success.
Safety campaigns
against junk food
have been shown for 15 years.
>> By eating less sugar and
fat, you can help to protect
your health.
>> In 2004, a law was voted
to limit the effects of food
marketing.
And the adverts
for these products
will have to contain health
warnings by law in an effort
to combat obesity.
For good health, avoid
eating too much sugar, fat,
or salt. Under
pressure, industries
reduced the quantities of sugar,
salt, and fat in their products
in France.
But they still find ways to
get around this obstacle.
Online, where ads
are less regulated,
they target new consumers.
In countries in the South,
brands go even further,
even going into schools.
And load their products
with fat and sugar.
>> I don't know whether
this would be [INAUDIBLE]..
>> Investigation into the new
territories of the fast food
giants.
>> In India, they moved
to no food to bad food.
It is going to be disastrous
for public health.
>> When you think
of Rio de Janeiro,
some images always come to mind.
Copacabana Beach, sculpted
bodies, easy living.
And a passion for sport.
These common themes are often
exploited by Western brands,
especially for fizzy drinks.
Football, favelas,
and sugary drinks.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But the reality in Brazil
is that one in two adults
are overweight and one
in seven are obese.
And according to this
spokesperson for a consumer
association, fizzy drink brands
cannot consider themselves
blameless.
>> Excessive marketing is one
of the main reasons for the rise
in obesity here.
Children become addicted
from a very early age.
And then it's much harder
to wean them off it.
They drink a lot of fizzy
drinks before the age of two,
even from their baby bottle.
Parents give this type of
product to their children
because they believe that if
adverts and businesses promote
them so much, it
can't be harmful.
Brazil is the third
biggest market
in the world for Coca-Cola.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The truth is that
I love fizzy drink.
I'm addicted.
We drink it nearly every day
at home and also when I go out.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It's my grandson
who likes them a lot.
The big bottles are for me
and the little ones for him.
He takes them straight
out of the fridge
and it's exactly the
size of his little hand.
>> Crisps.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In Brazil, there is no
law around food marketing
so brands don't hesitate to
[INAUDIBLE] [? for clients ?]
from school age.
Belo Horizonte, the sixth
biggest city in the country.
These neighborhoods in the
hills and this public college
are not the poorest,
but it has no budget
for extracurricular activities.
But everything
could soon change,
thanks to a famous red brand.
>> Let's go.
Go on, put on your costume.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> These 14-year-old
children who participate
in a competition organized
by Coca-Cola between schools
of the city, the
school's festival.
General rehearsal.
>> The winning school gets
15,000 riyals, that's right.
And yes, 5,000 riyals--
that would be great.
We could buy elastic, footballs,
equipment for volleyball.
>> Whatever the result, it
will be good for the school.
>> This teacher signed
the children up.
She even has the official
title of brand ambassador--
unthinkable in France.
College students join
4,000 other teenagers
in the largest auditorium.
And, of course, the
party begins with a Coke.
>> Of course, we
choose to drink Coke.
They are the best.
>> Have you given out
a lot of water so far?
>> 20 bottles maximum.
>> And Coke?
>> A lot.
All the refrigerators.
>> And how much is that?
>> About 2,000 cans.
>> That day, the
brand is everywhere.
And yet, it's a school event.
>> You spend a lot of
money on this operation?
>> Yes, we've invested a lot
because the goal is to make
the children dream, which is
the best gift that we can give
them.
Well, I don't mean children, but
teenagers, from 12 to 19 years
and who are our public.
>> Don't be stressed, breathe.
>> It's time for the pupils
of the region to go on stage.
Thanks to the well-known
fizzy drink brand,
they are able to get
their moment of glory.
>> Are you aware that
this is marketing?
>> Yes, well, more or less.
Because I don't think
Coke needs that.
You see, the brand is
already so well-known.
Everybody here knows it.
>> Coke forever.
Today, tomorrow,
Coca-Cola forever.
The most powerful fizzy
drink brand on the planet
has guaranteed the
lifelong loyalty
of these Brazilian
schoolchildren.
This country is still young.
And manufacturers aren't
waiting until high school
to reach the children.
McDonald's has been
sending its clown, Ronald,
into playgrounds for 27 years,
a marketing practice that
is legal, but
controversial in Brazil.
Last year, a children's
protection charity
tried to have it banned.
But at McDonald's, they
prefer not to talk about it.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> You can't just answer
two or three questions about
your show?
>> No, I can't, really.
>> Nothing at all?
>> Unfortunately not, sorry.
>> A school headmistress
helps us to find out more.
>> Here are the
children's lunches.
That's for Ronaldo.
That's for Julia.
In Sao Paolo,
[? Ana Marina Fazoli ?]
tries to prevent junk
food from entering
her school, a daily
battle to protect
her pupils, aged three to 14.
>> In Brazilian canteens, in
general, they serve crisps,
snacks often fried,
bread, or fizzy drinks.
It's really difficult.
Because it's not
just the adolescents who want
them, the younger ones do, too.
We really need to
make more effort
to educate them in this area.
>> At our request, the
headmistress contacted
McDonald's by telephone to
get Ronald the clown to come.
And a few days later--
>> Hey, what's up, kids?
Everything going OK?
>> Hello, welcome.
Wow, what an honor.
>> We pass ourselves
off as pupils' parents.
>> Hello.
>> Here we go,
everybody is here.
I want everybody
to clap their hands
so I can make my entrance.
Music.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> The sketches are about
the environment and sport,
no reference to the brand.
On the actor's costume,
the yellow logo
has even been covered
up by a red cloth
so they can't be
accused of advertising.
>> One, two, three, it's off.
We all clap loudly.
>> But the children
see all too well,
the link with the product.
>> Goodbye, Goodbye.
>> Does that make
you want to eat at?
McDonald's
>> Yes.
>> Are you going to
ask your parents?
>> Yes.
>> What do you want?
>> I want nuggets, fries,
a toy, and a fizzy drink,
a big fizzy drink.
>> And you, when
you get out of here,
what are you going to
ask your parents for?
>> Fries and ice cream.
>> This type of show has
already taken place in hundreds
of schools.
Does the brand accept that
this is underhand advertising?
We asked McDonald's
Brazil and we
received this reply by email.
>> And who is that?
>> A clown.
>> Which clown?
>> The clown from McDonald's.
Yes, it's Ronald.
>> He already came to the
[? crash ?] I was at before.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There is no law or regulation
that prevents this practice
in Brazil.
However, last year, the
association's complaint
led the Sao Paulo
prosecutor to act.
[? Javier Bardo ?] sent a
letter to the state authorities
of Sao Paolo in charge of
education to warn them.
>> As a precaution, we recommend
not allowing these shows
in schools.
The most effective marketing
is not the one that we see.
Subtle and repetitive adverts
are much more effective,
especially with children.
A child doesn't
separate the message
from an advert from
another message.
>> Here's what we
filmed this morning.
>> If we collect the water
we use to rinse the washing,
we can reuse it to water the
plants and wash the floor,
right?
>> Yes.
>> I feel completely helpless.
I've sent recommendations,
but apparently, the Secretary
of State for Health
hasn't followed up,
despite two letters
to the ministry.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In Brazil, the food
giants count on the weakness
of the public administration.
In other developing
countries, they
offer products that are much
worse for public health.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
India, 1 billion 300
million inhabitants,
a priority market for Western
brands looking for openings.
Here, street food is
healthy and good value.
To compete, European
and American companies
play on the majority of
consumers' lack of information.
In this huge shopping center in
Kolkata, among the restaurants,
it's a brand of fried chicken
that has the eyes turnover.
The American brand
has changed its recipe
for its Indian sauce,
spicy, and it's worked.
The restaurant attracts
3,000 customers
on average per day,
a record in India.
>> So what do you want?
>> I want that one,
the [INAUDIBLE]..
>> Which?
There's a burger,
chicken, or a wrap?
>> I want it all.
>> In Europe or
the United States,
menus include bottles of water.
Not here.
Only fizzy drinks or juices, but
the consumers don't complain.
>> To me, it's clean, hygiene.
I can see everything
being prepared.
I haven't been sick ever,
that's why I trust it.
>> Tastes very good.
It's a little healthier.
It is less oily.
>> The managers are aware
that the customers are lacking
correct information, but aren't
authorized to say anything.
We record this
conversation discreetly.
>> You don't have any customers
asking you information about
the fat or sugar or
things like that?
>> We are health conscious,
but not [INAUDIBLE] that Europe
and US people.
So we are becoming [INAUDIBLE].
>> The current paradox is that
while some Indians still suffer
from malnutrition, another
part of the population,
the middle class, is suffering
from an obesity epidemic.
30% of adolescents are
overweight, a figure
that has doubled in five years.
[? Suraj ?] is 15.
And at 5 foot 5, weighs
15 stone, 8 pounds.
The teenager is a
fast food junkie.
>> We have like
[INAUDIBLE] over,
we go out with
friends and family.
So we have all these pizzas,
and stuff, and everything.
We enjoy [? our ?] life.
>> Would you say you
are addicted to it?
>> I don't think I'm addicted.
But addicted is
different [? than-- ?]
I'm not doing anything else.
Like I'm not smoking
or I'm not drinking.
[INAUDIBLE] addict,
this is not addict.
>> But you know it's
not good for you?
>> Yeah, I know,
but what to do now?
>> What do you mean, what to do?
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> But you don't
want to give eating?
>> [INAUDIBLE] give up, no.
[INAUDIBLE] and I will give up.
>> Suraj has an
appointment in this clinic,
which specializes
in stomach surgery.
Serious operations
for extreme cases.
300 patients per month
are operated on here,
more and more are adolescents.
>> How are you?
[INAUDIBLE]
All set for tomorrow?
>> Last interview
before the surgery.
>> So you have about 54 kgs--
>> Extra weight.
>> Extra weight, which
you need to lose,
which will start from tomorrow.
After a month, we're very happy
if you join your PT exercise.
And you can be a very
tall, handsome boy.
He's already prediabetic.
His hormones are changed.
We see that his
estrogens in the body
are becoming more
prominent, giving rise
to gynecomastia and feminine
type of deposition of fat.
In addition to that, he had
psychosocial comorbidities.
>> I tried everything, but
no [INAUDIBLE] so doctor are
helping.
>> TV, advertising, and
media also play a lot of role
in promoting kids who
see some film stars,
some celebrity advertising for
something which is ideally not
correct.
And all this with
some inclination
to be [INAUDIBLE]
like a Westerner
probably could be a
reason for a temptation.
>> Thank you, doctor.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
[? >> Suraj's ?] operation
will take place the next day.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What's the matter, boyfriend?
I really want a
[? Mc ?] potato tikki.
OK.
>> TV adverts offer more and
more ultra low cost offers with
one promise,
international quality.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> When you take the freshest,
cleanest quality ingredients,
mix them with a
100% real chicken,
and add our secret
herbs and spices to it,
what you get isn't
just good food,
it's food that's
finger-licking good.
>> Is this really true?
Are the products sold in
India the same as over here?
To find out, we compared them.
We chose McDonald's and
KFC, two brands that
are very widespread in India.
Here's what we found.
At McDonald's, a
McChicken in India
contains two and a
half times more sugar
than the French sandwich.
The Filet-O-Fish contains
twice as much saturated fat,
same goes for the McNuggets.
As for the Indian fries,
they are off the chart.
Nearly six times
more saturated fat.
The results are
no better at KFC.
The fries in India contain
10 times as much salt.
The hot wings have
three times as much fat.
In France, such levels
would be unthinkable because
of nutritional commitments
made by these multinationals.
We wanted to show these
results to a pioneer
in the fight against junk food.
He runs the Center for
Science and Environment,
a very respected NGO in India.
Chandra Bushan wrote a
damning report in 2012,
criticizing the nutritional
content of products
destined for Indian consumers.
>> The purpose is very simple.
If you are more salty,
more fatty, more sugary,
it is more tasty.
People are going to eat more.
They know it.
And that is the challenge.
Junk food will taste good,
but it is really, really bad
for your health.
>> We show him our
comparison results.
>> These results are
actually quite shocking.
That the same multinational
company selling
product in Europe and India,
they have double standards.
For them, having such a high
amount of fat, sugar, and salt
is not a problem in India.
Whereas, they will have to
meet very strict regulations
in France.
So this is shocking,
to say the least.
This is a very, very
shocking [? visit. ?]
>> We brought the sandwich
with the most calories
in McDonald's in India,
the spicy paneer wrap,
a vegetarian cheese sandwich.
It's nutritional
composition can be
found on the brand's website.
>> It has 51 grams of fat,
25 grams of saturated fat,
and 5 grams of salt. If
you eat this one wrap,
then you shouldn't be
eating anything in the day.
Even a bread.
If you show it to
a mother who is not
aware about these
issues, the mother
will buy this for her child.
This is the worst kind of
corporate responsibility
you can think about, where they
give an image of healthy food,
but the food is not healthy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's not just to make
consumers addicted
that certain brands
sell food that
is so high in sugar and fats.
That's what this former
consultant at Domino's Pizza,
the most developed fast food
brand in India, explains to us.
This former chef prefers
to stay anonymous.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
Hi, can we get one garlic bread.
>> He wants to show us products
that illustrate the deceptive
marketing of the brand.
>> Garlic bread, do
you put butter in it?
>> [INAUDIBLE] oil.
>> Oil, OK.
It's for 20 rupees,
which is nice and cheap.
So it's basically
bread with the filling
and that's the sauce,
that's the sauce, which
there's so much oil.
Not the real mozzarella.
And inside, it's
supposed to be cheesy.
This is like a cream
emulsified mayo.
Now it gives you effect
of a real cheese.
But this is basically
like the sauce.
So it's definitely no dairy.
>> Why don't they
use a real butter?
>> It's expensive.
>> After six months of
working for the company,
the chef decided to
resign, sickened.
>> Everything is
[? supposed ?] to make money.
And as long as money
is getting made,
so there is no right or wrong.
They had a lot of
problems with me
because I used to
give food as food,
not as chemical
construction of something.
But all my ideas were
all rejected because they
were extremely expensive.
Because I can't make a pizza
for 30 rupees, I mean, I can't.
[? Which ?] has to value
people at the end of it.
It's not right.
Because at the end
of it, it's a cycle
which will come back to you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In India, Domino's doesn't
provide any nutritional
information.
It's legal in India, but
would be illegal in France.
We had these products
analyzed in a laboratory,
starting with a pizza
filled with fake cheese.
It contains 52 grams
of fat, the equivalent
of five soup spoons of oil.
And effectively, not a
single gram of cheese.
As for the $0.30 garlic bread,
it contains 11.6% saturated
fats, a nutritional nightmare.
We approached
Domino's, McDonald's,
KFC, but to no avail.
None of them responded to
our interview requests.
So we went to an event that was
open to the press, the General
Assembly of the Association
of Indian Restaurants
in a trendy bar in New Delhi.
All of the heads
of the major brands
were there having a drink,
including the director general
of Domino's Pizza in India.
>> I'm sorry to
interrupt, once again,
I have to ask you one question.
>> I'm [? all ?] good, I
don't want interview, sorry.
>> Why is Domino's [INAUDIBLE].
>> No, I have no answer.
>> Because Domino's is
publishing information
in the US, but
nothing [INAUDIBLE]..
You don't want to answer?
>> I don't want.
>> You don't want
to [INAUDIBLE]??
Has it been that Domino's
doesn't care about nutrition?
>> [INAUDIBLE] can you
just leave this place?
>> I am a journalist,
I ask questions.
>> The head of HR
comes to the rescue.
>> What do you want?
>> My question is very simple.
Obesity is a problem
in your country.
>> Absolutely, [? there are ?]
so many other problems, also,
yes.
>> Isn't it not responsible
not to [INAUDIBLE]??
>> See, I'm not
authorized to speak,
I'm not authorized to speak--
that's what I'm saying,
whatever questions you have,
you will get all the
answers and we will send
you all the [? response. ?]
>> Obesity is just one problem
among others to Domino's.
We never receive a response,
despite trying multiple times.
Only the American
headquarters sent us an email,
redirecting us to
the Indian branch.
In countries in the south,
the junk food giants
take advantage of the
lack of legislation.
Elsewhere, where
these rules exist,
others manage to
get around them.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> 5:30 PM in France, a time
when many families are having
their after school snack.
For Nathan and his
sisters, it always
ends the same way,
everyone on their tablets.
While television
usage is diminishing,
the internet is
skyrocketing for children.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I put that there,
like that and like that.
>> So for 10 years, businesses
have created Facebook pages
and worked out how to
make themselves popular.
Of the 20 most followed
brands in France,
half are from the food industry.
Above all, they've developed
advertisement games
on the internet to put
forward their brand.
They're known as advert games.
Oreo, Fanta,
Haribo-- the products
are the center of these games.
And unlike the TV adverts,
no health warnings.
Neither is there any
obligation to indicate
that it is an advert.
Only the Nestle Group state
this for one of its games,
but it's written
in very small type.
>> This is an advert.
>> Why do you think they make
these games, in your opinion?
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> They added the game because
they think it's fun for people
to play.
>> Do you think it's
an ad, the game?
>> No, it's a game.
>> Their mother comes
to see what's happening.
>> So what are you doing?
>> You have to kill
these bugs, it's hard.
You have to click on them.
>> It's a bit idiotic as a game.
The deceptive side is that it
doesn't look like an advert.
They don't say eat Oreos, buy
Fanta, or have X or Y cereals
for breakfast.
So I think it's a bit disguised.
Now it's up to them
to separate the two.
It's really a first for me,
I didn't know this existed.
>> What are the consequences
of these games on children?
What are the differences
from a television advert?
A researcher just wrote to
report on marketing in the food
industry destined for children.
And she focused on
these advert games.
>> [MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We eat with our eyes.
The images of the food
make you want to eat it.
And the main thing with
digital is that it's
more interactive and fun.
The child isn't passive like
in front of the television.
He's really the player in
the game on the internet
or when interacting
on social media.
Also, we have
worrying figures that
show that up until
the age of 15,
children don't recognize
that it's a brand that
has created this game.
And they don't realize
the marketing intention.
>> We show her some of the
games that we have selected.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It's important to keep an
eye on the time that the child
spends on the game since they
will be encouraged to play very
often to improve
their performance.
And it's a very fun world.
And all the time
they are playing,
they are being
encouraged to follow
the brand and the product.
>> Games to keep a close eye
on, especially as their effects
on public health are worrying.
Notably, for those
who are overweight.
In this hospital in
the Paris region,
an obesity specialist has
to battle more and more
with digital marketing.
>> Hello,
[? Adrian, ?] let's go.
How are you?
Take off the shorts
so we can weigh you.
5 foot 8 and 14
stone, 13 pounds.
[? >> Adrian, ?] 15, has been
followed for a year in his
battle against his weight.
But he is constantly
being solicited.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Do you have
games on your phone?
>> Yes.
>> And have you noticed the ads?
>> Yes, food and fizzy drinks.
>> What brands?
>> McDonald's.
>> [INAUDIBLE] McDonald's
and Coke are there.
>> Sometimes they just come up.
But you can't block them.
>> With 7 kilograms
lost already,
[? Adrian ?] is
on the right path.
>> Well done,
enjoy the holidays.
>> Others find it harder
to resist temptation.
>> Chloe has 11 and is
slightly overweight.
As the appointment
starts, her little brother
entertains himself with the
McDonald's game's application.
No burger or fries to be seen,
but the Happy Meal mascot
is very visible, which gets
the doctor's attention.
>> So have you
finished the games?
>> No, I'm just in the middle.
I'm in the middle
of doing them all.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> As soon as he wants
to download an app,
I have to check.
So I've given the OK because
McDonald's is pretty harmless.
>> Harmless?
>> Yes, it's just coloring in.
>> And for you,
is it advertising?
>> No, they already
know McDonald's.
They don't need ads.
>> Does it make you want to go?
>> Yes, it makes me want to.
>> That is what is
underhand in this non-ad,
which really is one.
Having the McDonald's app
right in front of your eyes,
it can make you think, we
haven't been for a while.
Why don't we go tonight?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Targeting the
weakest consumers.
However, these brands
had committed themselves
to no longer do this.
In 2008, the 20 biggest
food groups worldwide
had signed the
same promise, that
of limiting advertising aimed
at children under 12 years old.
This commitment also
applied to the advert games,
but no sanction was in effect.
However, we discover
that most of the games
are available on
iTunes or Google Play
for children over four,
free and with no mention
of parental permission.
We contacted these brands.
Some of them replied to
us exclusively by email.
None of the companies or
their communication agencies
would reply to our
questions on camera.
To understand their
marketing strategy,
we had to do a little role play.
We passed ourselves off as
a fizzy drink manufacturer.
We started by
creating a fake brand
with the help of
a graphic artist,
a very sugary fruit
juice called Swag.
A little cutting and pasting
workshop, a first test
to the target audience.
We're going to need an advert
game to sweeten the pill.
We get in contact with several
specialized ad agencies.
They've made some very popular
games for well-known brands.
La Chute for the brand Oasis,
downloaded 2 million times.
Les Z'Aventures de
[INAUDIBLE],, which gives center
stage to crisps in
a world of cheese.
And this site for children,
Tasty Comics by KFC,
2 million regular visits.
This game involves
collecting the most fries.
To spice up the exercise, we
add sugar to the fruit juice.
The bottle is displaying
a particularly high level.
We film with a hidden camera.
First agency.
Hello, we have a
meeting with [? Bip. ?]
We show them our fruit juice.
We want to compete
with Oasis Fanta.
We have the budget for the app.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The idea is to be in another
world that is fun and can speak
to a child.
>> OK, children as
in children-children?
>> Yes, that's our main target.
>> OK, that's very clear.
>> The ad executive shows
us the last game created
by the agency.
The client?
One of the top five
food groups worldwide.
>> It's a very, very simple game
because it's children who will
play it.
And you play with
the hero who is
on the packaging in a universe,
which is that of the brand.
>> The client of the agency had
committed to not advertising
to under 12.
However, the game is clearly
aimed at small children.
>> What I'm telling
you in this strategy,
we're not allowed to publish.
We can't say that we're
targeting children.
In fact, we can't target
children that are under 11.
>> It's tea time.
No comment on the
amount of sugar.
To find out more,
a second meeting
with an agency that claims to
be the leader in advertising
games in France.
This company director has just
created an app for a chocolate
company that has been downloaded
several million times.
>> They've increased their
revenue by 30% on their biscuit
range--
27%, I think.
">> "Do we know what
age range this is for?
>> No, but it's tea
time for children.
So they're very
chocolate-flavored muffins,
really for kids.
So I think it matches
with your target.
>> We are going to be given
some trade secrets based
on psychology.
>> Generally, we manage to put
the brands in at places which
give the most
pleasure in the game.
They're going to be exposed
to the brand five to 10 times
per session.
It's thanks to
the brand that you
progress, that you win a bonus.
And that generates pleasure
hormones that make you happy.
And it's associated
with the brand.
It's very effective.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We requested an interview
on the marketing effectiveness
of advert games with these
agencies and their clients.
No response.
We wanted to show
these images to Dr.
[? Fidelgo, ?] the childhood
obesity specialist.
It's thanks to the
brand that you progress.
And that generates pleasure
hormones that make you happy.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It's impressive
in its pertinence.
We know that video games
are addictive for children
so there's this connection
of two addictions, games
and sugar.
And, I think, it's infuriating
for us, professionals.
We struggle daily trying
to get across a message
to the children that as soon as
they get home and play a game,
it will probably
make them disappear.
I hope that we'll manage
to legislate against that.
And I'll support it as
a health professional.
>> Exactly that, legislate.
In France, food
advertising is supposed
to regulate itself through
the regulation of advertising
authority, the ARPP.
It's led by businesses
and television channels.
Stephane Martin is
the general manager.
>> Welcome.
>> It has just written a report
that concludes that 99.8%
of the ads broadcast in 2014
respected ethical obligations,
including those online.
But the advert games are
not taken into account.
We show him the game
created by the brand Oreo.
>> So you get
points by consuming?
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH],
>> Yes, but that's the
principle of reward.
It's universal.
Either with points or gold bars
or if it's food, the product.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> So if I have a
poster in the street,
I have to feature
a health warning,
but not if I'm making
a children's game?
>> Yes, because it
wasn't foreseen.
There's no obligation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Nothing has been foreseen,
even though obesity levels
continue to rise in France,
especially in poorer families.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Nothing has happened, simply
because the public authorities
know the economic impact
of the food industry.
And there is currently, a
lack of political courage
to change things.
But it's true that currently
in the public sphere,
it's not a question that is
particularly present in France.
>> And nothing in
France will change soon.
There is no project to
change the laws relating
to advertising on the
internet, even though this
is dramatically on the rise.
Back in India, the
country where everything
is allowed where disclosing
what is in your product
is concerned.
We find Suraj, the
adolescent, one hour
before his operation
to reduce his stomach.
>> [INAUDIBLE], all the best.
Not scared now, [INAUDIBLE] boy.
>> I'm excited [INAUDIBLE]
will lose enough.
But I have to [INAUDIBLE].
>> What do you mean [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Have to not eat
all the [INAUDIBLE]..
>> General anesthetic, the
surgeon begins the operation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This looks like the liver,
which has become so big.
It's all because it's fat-laden.
If I touch, you can see
a yellow discoloration,
which means the liver it's
fat-laden and very large.
>> The doctor is going to
entirely remove the adolescents
stomach before replacing
it in the abdomen,
smaller and tighter.
>> It went very well,
he's doing fine.
Nothing to worry about.
>> Four months later, we found
out that Suraj has lost more
than 4 stone, 10 pounds.
This adolescent needed
a surgical operation
to get over his
addiction to junk food.
A few months ago, the 20
biggest food multinationals
made an announcement--
nutritional standards
that will apply worldwide.
But again, there
are no sanctions
if the criteria
are not respected.
And the companies are left
to regulate themselves.
Date of application, 2018.
Until then, in two
years time, obesity
will have killed 5.6
million people worldwide.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[MUSIC - DANIEL FARRANT,
JAMES KNIGHT & RAY GELATO,
"DING DING"]
(SINGING) Girl from Spumante,
she tickled my fancy.
I wanted to take her back home.
Take her back home.
From there va-mangiare.
Oh, what a party 'til she
bumped into Fredo from Rome.
Fredo from Rome.
She whispered to me,
oh, how could this be?
I seem to be belle of the ball.
O va, let's begin.
I'm gonna win.
Come on, let the
winner take all.
Ding ding a-round one.
Ding ding round one.
Now the bout has begun.
Ding ding a-round two.
Ding ding round two.
Fredo, I'm-a coming for you.
Ding ding round three.